feat(logs): initial work on develop docs for sdk logging api (#12920)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/sdk/telemetry/logs.mdx

---
title: Logs
sidebar_order: 3
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

The Sentry Logs feature is under active development. The information in this document is subject to change.

</Alert>

> This document defines the format used by Sentry to ingest logs, as well as the SDK API and behavior that creates and sends logs to Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines the format used by Sentry to ingest logs, as well as the SDK API and behavior that create and send logs to Sentry.
```

## Logs Protocol

> Logs can be sent in two ways to Sentry, via the `log` envelope and Sentry Log protocol, or the `otel_log` envelope and OpenTelemetry Log protocol. The `log` envelope and protocol is the preferred way to send logs to Sentry, but the `otel_log` envelope and protocol is also supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to send logs to Sentry: via the `log` envelope and Sentry Log protocol (preferred), or the `otel_log` envelope and OpenTelemetry Log protocol.
```

### `otel_log` Envelope Item Payload

> The `otel_log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents a OpenTelemetry Log. Multiple `otel_log` envelope items can be sent in a single envelope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `otel_log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents an OpenTelemetry Log. Multiple `otel_log` envelope items can be sent in a single envelope.
```

    {
      "key": "boolean_value",
      "value": {
        "boolValue": false
      }
    },
    {
      "key": "double_item",
      "value": {
        "stringValue": "value"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

`time_unix_nano`

: **String, optional**. The time the log was created in Unix nanoseconds. If not set, the SDK should set this to the current time.

### `log` Envelope Item Payload

The `log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents a log.

TODO: Document `log` Envelope Item Payload once finalized.

### Log Severity Level

The log severity level is a string that represents the severity of the log. The Sentry's default log severity level maps exactly to [OpenTelemetry's Severity text field](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/#field-severitytext) on the OpenTelemetry Logs Spec..

- `trace`
- `debug`
- `info`
- `warn`
- `error`
- `fatal`

### Log Severity Number

The log severity number is an integer that represents the severity of the log. The Sentry's default log severity number maps exactly to [OpenTelemetry's Severity number field](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/#field-severitynumber) on the OpenTelemetry Logs Spec.

> | SeverityNumer range | Range name | Meaning                                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| SeverityNumber range | Range name | Meaning                                                                                 |
```

## SDK Behavior

### Implementation

If `debug` is set to `true` in SDK init, calls to the Sentry logger API should also print to the console with the appropriate log level. This will help debugging logging setups.

Logs should be buffered before being sent. SDKs should keep a buffer of logs on the client (so you can have logs from multiple traces in the buffer) that flushes out based on some kind of condition. A recommended condition is if the buffer length exceeds 25 items, or if 5 seconds have passed. In the future we can use a [weight-tracking based approach](https://github.com/getsentry/rfcs/blob/main/text/0126-sdk-spans-aggregator.md#weight) to determine when to flush logs.

The internal SDK implementation is kept purposefully broad as we are still in early stages. As we figure more out about the logs product and payload characteristics, we'll be able to define a more rigorous spec for logging internals in the SDK. SDKs should take care to not expose logging internals as much as possible to userland so that they can be refactored in the future.

> ### Default Attributes
> 
> By default the SDK should set the following attributes:
> 
> 1. `sentry.message.template`: The parameterized template string
> 2. `sentry.message.parameters.X`: The parameters to the template string, where X is the number that represent the parameters position in the template string
> 3. `sentry.environment`: The environment set in the SDK
> 4. `sentry.release`: The release set in the SDK
> 
> Example:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "sentry.message.template": "Adding item %s for user %s",
>   "sentry.message.parameters.0": "item_id",
>   "sentry.message.parameters.1": "user_id",
>   "sentry.environment": "production",
>   "sentry.release": "1.0.0"
> }
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
### Default Attributes

By default the SDK should set the following attributes:

1. `sentry.message.template`: The parameterized template string
2. `sentry.message.parameters.X`: The parameters to the template string, where X is the number that represent the parameters position in the template string
3. `sentry.environment`: The environment set in the SDK
4. `sentry.release`: The release set in the SDK
5. `sentry.trace.parent_span_id`: The span id of the span that was active when the log was collected. This should not be set if there was no active span.

Example:

```json
{
  "sentry.message.template": "Adding item %s for user %s",
  "sentry.message.parameters.0": "item_id",
  "sentry.message.parameters.1": "user_id",
  "sentry.environment": "production",
  "sentry.release": "1.0.0",
  "sentry.trace.parent_span_id": "b0e6f15b45c36b12"
}
```
```

---
title: Logs
sidebar_order: 3
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

The Sentry Logs feature is under active development. The information in this document is subject to change.

</Alert>

This document defines the format used by Sentry to ingest logs, as well as the SDK API and behavior that create and send logs to Sentry.

## Logs Protocol

There are two ways to send logs to Sentry: via the `log` envelope and Sentry Log protocol (preferred), or the `otel_log` envelope and OpenTelemetry Log protocol.

All SDKs are required to send logs via the `log` envelope and Sentry Log protocol. The `otel_log` envelope and OpenTelemetry Log protocol are just documented for completeness and to provide a reference for SDK authors. See the [Appendix A](#appendix-a-otel_log-envelope-item-payload) for the `otel_log` envelope item payload.

### `log` Envelope Item Payload

The `log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents a Sentry Log. Multiple `log` envelope items can be sent in a single envelope.

```json
{
  "timestamp": 1544719860.0,

>   "trace_id": "5b8efff798038103d269b633813fc60c",

Reviewer 3: Why are we duplicating the trace ID from the envelope header here?

      "string_value": "production"
    },
    "sentry.release": {
      "string_value": "1.0.0"
    },
    "sentry.trace.parent_span_id": {
      "string_value": "b0e6f15b45c36b12"
    }
  }
}
```

It consists of the following fields:

`timestamp`

: **Number, required**. The timestamp of the log in seconds since the Unix epoch.

`trace_id`

: **String, required**. The trace id of the log.

`level`

: **String, required**. The severity level of the log. One of `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal` (in order of lowest to highest).

`body`

: **String, required**. The log body/message.

`attributes`

: **Object, optional**. A dictionary of key-value pairs of arbitrary data attached to the log. Attributes must also declare the type of the value. The following types are supported: `string`, `boolean`, `integer`, `double`.

Note: `intValue` is a string because JSON only recognizes numbers as floating point values.

Example:

```json
{
  "attributes": {
    "string_item": {
      "stringValue": "value"
    },
    "integer_item": {
      "intValue": "123"
    },
    "boolean_item": {
      "boolValue": true
    },
    "double_item": {
      "doubleValue": 123.456
    }
  }

> }

Reviewer 3: I would like to propose a format as this, as it's more readable and future proof.
```
"attributes": {
    "sentry.release": {
         "value": "1.0.0",
         "type": "string",
    },
},
```

---
title: Logs
sidebar_order: 3
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

The Sentry Logs feature is under active development. The information in this document is subject to change.

</Alert>

This document defines the format used by Sentry to ingest logs, as well as the SDK API and behavior that create and send logs to Sentry.

## Logs Protocol

There are two ways to send logs to Sentry: via the `log` envelope and Sentry Log protocol (preferred), or the `otel_log` envelope and OpenTelemetry Log protocol.

### `otel_log` Envelope Item Payload

> The `otel_log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents an OpenTelemetry Log. Multiple `otel_log` envelope items can be sent in a single envelope.

Reviewer 4: For the whole section. Should the `otel_log` envelope item type not use the CamelCase property names like defined here?: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/

Author: I think relay requires this to be sent this way given it's nested. Let me double check this.

> The `otel_log` envelope item payload is a JSON object that represents an OpenTelemetry Log. Multiple `otel_log` envelope items can be sent in a single envelope.

Reviewer 4: We should mention, that this is an implemention of the OptenTelemetry Logs Data Model and link here: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/

```json
{
  "severity_text": "info",
  "body": {
    "string_value": "User John has logged in!"
  },
  "attributes": [
    {
      "key": "sentry.message.template",
      "value": { "string_value": "User %s has logged in!" }
    },
    {
      "key": "sentry.message.parameters.0",
      "value": { "string_value": "John" }
    }
  ],
  "time_unix_nano": "1741191250694000000",
  "trace_id": "edec519707974fc8bfccb5a017e17394",
  "severity_number": 9
}
```

It consists of the following fields:

`severity_text`

: **String, required**. The severity level of the log. One of `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal` (in order of lowest to highest).

`severity_number`

: **Integer, optional**. The severity number of the log. See [Log Severity Number](#log-severity-number) for more information.

`trace_id`

> : **Integer, optional**. [HEAVILY RECOMMENDED] The trace id of the log. SDKs should attempt to set this if possible. This is used to link logs to traces and errors in Sentry.

Reviewer 5: Why not make it required? Every SDK should support [tracing without performance](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/telemetry/traces/tracing-without-performance/) already, and for that you need a trace ID.

Reviewer 6: (moved from internal doc): Can we use DSC for this? Or is the incentive here that multiple log envelope items within a single envelope can belong to different traces?

Reviewer 7: This is optional in OTel since people may want to do various things, but for our product we always expect a trace. Therefore for our own protocol I think it should be required, if you don't have a traceid it's fine to make one (like with tracing without perf, as Philipp mentioned).

Reviewer 6: alright, but what about the DSC? I guess it also has to be a part of the logs envelope right? What trace_id goes in there?

Author: For now DSC is not part of the logs envelope - just trace, given the behaviour that logs from multiple traces might be in a single envelope.

Once we need DSC behaviour we'll revisit this.

`body`

: **Object, required**. The log body/message.

Example:

```json
{
  "string_value": "Added item to shopping cart"
}
```

`attributes`

: **Array\<Object\>, optional**. A dictionary of key-value pairs of arbitrary data attached to the log. Attributes must also declare the type of the value. The following types are supported: `string`, `number`, `boolean`, `integer`, `double`.

Note: `intValue` is a string because JSON only recognizes numbers as floating point values.

Example:

```json
{
  "attributes": [

>     {
>       "key": "string_item",
>       "value": {
>         "stringValue": "value"
>       }
>     },

Reviewer 8: I find this format quite clunky, is this how OTel does things? If we have some leeway here I think the following would already go a long way towards making this easier to work with:
1. removing the extra nesting; i.e., not having `"value"` be a dictionary but rather the flat value
2. instead of having different names for the key depending on the type, moving the type into its own key

So basically the above would become this:

```suggestion
    {
      "key": "string_item",
      "value": "value",
      "type": "string",
    },
```

I'd especially like to do 2. since in Python it otherwise leads to some non-idiomatic code where instead of just accessing the value by key, you have to `pop()` from the dict instead. It's not a huge deal but I had to work with dicts like this and it felt very clunky.

Reviewer 8: Nevermind, this is the format for `otel_log` so I guess we can't be creative here. :) But maybe we can come up with a nicer format for `log`s once we get to defining that.

Reviewer 4: I was also thinking that the format is a bit verbose. But as this is just the otel logs data model https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/ it is fine. 

For the `logs` type I think we should also be as close to potel as possible. As this is an internal format and the user will probably never see this, it does not matter if it is a bit verbose.

Author: We've improved this with logs pageload, see 3ff6e568b5e40648b49c2d64240e45dfb12ae63d

    {
      "key": "integer_item",
      "value": {
        "intValue": "123"
      }
    },
    {
      "key": "boolean_value",
      "value": {
        "boolValue": false
      }
    },
    {
      "key": "double_item",
      "value": {
        "doubleValue": "value"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> `time_unix_nano`

Reviewer 3: I think we already agreed on using our regular timestamps for logs as well.

> `time_unix_nano`

Reviewer 7: Yep, the 'log' protocol will just be `timestamp` like our regular timestamps, we'll have relay handle converting it into nano.

| 5-8                  | Debug      | A debugging event.                                                                      |
| 9-12                 | Info       | An informational event. Indicates that an event happened.                               |
| 13-16                | Warn       | A warning event. Not an error but is likely more important than an informational event. |
| 17-20                | Error      | An error event. Something went wrong.                                                   |
| 21-24                | Fatal      | A fatal error such as application or system crash.                                      |

Default SDK public API should set the lowest severity number for a given severity level. For example, `warn` severity level logs collected by the SDK API should use the severity number `13`.

## Public API

API wise the SDKs are required to expose logging methods which are to be defined in a `logger` module or namespace. The SDKs should also include some initialization options to configure the behavior of logs in the SDK.

### Initialization Options

The SDKs need to expose the following two configuration options:

> - `enableSentryLogs`/`enable_sentry_logs`: A boolean flag to control if log envelopes will be generated and sent to Sentry via the Sentry SDK's Logging APIs. If this flag is set to `false`, the SDK should not send logs to Sentry. Defaults to `false`.

Reviewer 4: Bikeshed: I would just call it `enable_logs`. It is a property given to the `sentry_sdk.init()` command so I think there is no need to put `sentry` in the config option. None of the other options we have has sentry in it. It is also called `enable_tracing` and not `enable_sentry_tracing` because the context of the init() funciton makes it clear that it is sentry related tracing (or logs).

Author: Done with 2d2abe8372c4d3806c777d3a274585a6f40ea9ae

> - `beforeSendLog`/`before_send_log`: A function that takes a log object and returns a log object. This function is called before sending the log to Sentry. It can be used to modify the log object or to prevent the log from being sent to Sentry.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- `beforeEmitLog`/`before_emit_log`: A function that takes a log object and returns a log object. This function is called before sending the log to Sentry. It can be used to modify the log object or to prevent the log from being sent to Sentry.
```
(Ignore if we decided not to rename this.)

Reviewer 3: All other callbacks are called `beforeSend*` so I would stay consistent,

Author: I debated renaming this for a while, but I think we are going to stay with `beforeSend`. An payload going through `beforeSendX` doesn't guarantee it gets sent to Sentry, so keeping this behaviour seems fine to me.

```js
Sentry.init({
  enableSentryLogs: true,

>   beforeSendLog(log) {

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  beforeEmitLog(log) {
```

    // Prevent logs from being sent to Sentry if the plan type is enterprise
    if (log.attributes["plan.type"] === "enterprise") {
      return null;
    }

    return log;
  },
});
```

At the current moment, logs are not sampled so no sampling configuration needs to be exposed. This may change in the future.

### Logger Module

At minimum the SDK needs to implement the following two items to be considered to have a complete logging public API:

1. `Sentry.logger.X` (where `X` is the log level): The log levels are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, and `fatal`, which is specced out by the [protocol below](#log-severity-level).

- `Sentry.logger.trace`
- `Sentry.logger.debug`
- `Sentry.logger.info`
- `Sentry.logger.warn`
- `Sentry.logger.error`
- `Sentry.logger.fatal`

These methods accepts a string template and the parameters to that string template so the SDK can perform structured logging. Optionally these methods take arbitrary attributes, but not all languages can support both passing a parameterized template and attributes in an easy way.

```js
// Need to use `fmt` helper function in JavaScript for structured logging.

> Sentry.logger.info(Sentry.logger.fmt`Adding item ${itemId} for user ${userId}`);

Reviewer 5: `Sentry.logger.info(Sentry.logger.fmt` this looks verbose. It would be great if we could simplify this, but I have no clue if this is possible. It's also OK to keep this for LA and figure it out later.

Author: I think we have no choice but to use the `Sentry.logger.fmt` helper in Browser JavaScript. Luckily we have better options in server-side JS.

Sentry.logger.warn("User %s performed action %s", [userId, actionName], {
  extra: "123",

> });

Reviewer 5: Is it a stupid idea to add overloads for these methods that allow you to pass attributes and severity number as well?  I imagine the following scenario: You have a `warn` log message, but you want to add some attributes to it, which will help you to get more context for fixing a bug. Now you need to refactor `warn` to using `emit(level: warn, ...` which seems a bit annoying.

Author: No that is perfectly reasonable. Documented here: ab38e6e88e187f6fbeb59ba88eac5c54b938edab

```

Optionally the SDK can define a `log` log severity level, which maps to the `info` log severity level in Sentry. If an SDK collects `log` severity level, it should map to `info` severity level and `9` severity number.

```js
Sentry.logger.log("Added item to shopping cart");

> ```

Reviewer 5: I'm a bit confused as to why we need this. What's the motivation to have an extra `log` method that is basically `info`?

Reviewer 6: I think I'd be in favour of renaming `emit` to `log` actually, but I understand we're following otel here

Author: > I'm a bit confused as to why we need this. What's the motivation to have an extra log method that is basically info?

Just as an alias. Let me actually remove this, I think SDKs including this is a bad idea actually. Done with 5ea9d7d6acdb020939e3a751a2f278c1be30cd9d

> 2. `Sentry.logger.emit`: A more verbose version of the `Sentry.logger.X` methods that accepts a log object/dictionary for maximum customizability. This is only meant to be used by power users, who want full control over what exactly is being set. Note that this API aligns with [OTEL's default logging API](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/api/#emit-a-logrecord) as well, which gives us flexibility to align on those in the future.

Reviewer 4: We should not have two ways of emitting logs (one way is using the `trace`, `debug`, `info`, ... functions mentioned above) and one would be the `emit` function.

Lets not have `emit` from the start. Its addressing a problem we do not yet know people will have. We can always add it later.

Reviewer 7: I agree now that I think about it, less surface area is generally better, one way of doing things vs. two.

> accepts a log object/dictionary for maximum customizability

We accept a log object with `trace`, `debug`, etc. anyway so maybe we just forego `emit` and leave it as private api.

Author: Okay I agree - removing `emit`.

Done with 9d7302bd7325cc81a63266f03ad0b1affd9b43f0

Emit should take the following parameters:

> - `level`: The log severity level of the log. One of `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`.

Reviewer 8: We seem to be using `severityText` for this everywhere else, would be good to keep this consistent unless there's a good reason not to do so. (I'd personally prefer we use `level` and `severity` instead of `severityText` and `severityNumber` everywhere, but I understand the latter keeps us aligned with OTel, so makes sense to use that.)

```suggestion
- `severityText`: The log severity level of the log. One of `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`.
```

Author: We went with `level`.

- `message`: The log body
- `attributes`: An object/dictionary of key-value pairs of arbitrary data attached to the log. This should not be a nested data structure. If a object or dictionary is passed in, SDKs can choose to either disregard the attribute, or serialize the object into a string.

> - `severityNumber`: An optional integer that represents the severity of the log. See [Log Severity Number](#log-severity-number) for more information.

Reviewer 8: We could simplify this to just `severity`.

Q: What is the impact of setting `severityNumber`? What would be the incentive for users to set this explicitly? Does this affect anything in the UI? Basically wondering whether this needs to be part of the API.

Sentry.logger.emit({
  level: "info",
  message: "Adding item for user",
  attributes: {
    itemId,
    userId,
  },
  severityNumber: 11,
});
```

Beyond the two specified sets of methods, SDKs are free to add any extra helpers as they feel is necessary. For example, they could choose to add specialized decorators or helpers for string template creation.

Below are some example SDK implementations to get you started. These are not finalized versions of the API and individual SDK authors should ensure the logging APIs best fit their platforms. When an SDK implements the logging API, this section should be updated with the SDK's specific implementation.

#### JavaScript

```jsx
// Browser JavaScript - need to rely on tagged template literals for string templating
Sentry.logger.info(Sentry.logger.fmt`Adding item ${itemId} for user ${userId}`);

// Server-side (Node.js, Bun, Deno) with printf-like syntax
Sentry.logger.info("Adding item %s for user %s", [itemId, userId], {
  extra: 123,
});

Sentry.logger.emit({
  level: "info",
  message: "Adding item for user",
  attributes: {
    itemId,
    userId,
    extra: 123,
  },
});
```

#### Python

```python
# With f-string like syntax

> Sentry.logger.info('Adding item {item} for user {user}', item=item_id, user=user_id, attributes={ 'extra': 123 });
> 
> Sentry.logger.emit(
>   level='info',
>   message='Adding item for user',
>   attributes={
>     'item_id': item_id,
>     'user_id': user_id,
>     extra: 123
>   },
> )

Reviewer 8: A bit confused about the format here. Are `item_id` and `user_id` supposed to be part of `attributes`? Shouldn't this be more like

```suggestion
sentry_sdk.logger.info('Adding item {item} for user {user}', item=item_id, user=user_id, attributes={'extra': 123})

sentry_sdk.logger.emit(
  level='info',
  message='Adding item for user',
  item_id=item_id,
  user_id=user_id,
  attributes={
    'extra': 123
  },
)
```

Reviewer 7: > Sentry.logger.info('Adding item {item} for user {user}', item=item_id, user=user_id, attributes={ 'extra': 123 });

The attributes on this line are just showing that you can include additional attributes that aren't solely used in the template for a formatted log message, I believe. 

We maybe should have an equivalent template when we're using `logger.emit`?

Author: I removed `logger.emit`, shouldn't be an issue for now. We can revisit this later.

  message: 'Adding item for user',
  attributes: [
    'item_id': item_id,
    'user_id': user_id,
    'extra': 123
  ],
);
```

#### Java

```java
import io.sentry.Sentry;

// example with MessageFormat based string template
Sentry.logger().info("Adding item {0,string} for user {1,string}", item_id, user_id);

Sentry.logger().emit(log -> {
  log.setLevel("info");
  log.setMessage("Adding item for user");
  log.setAttribute("item_id", item_id);
  log.setAttribute("user_id", user_id);
  log.setAttribute("extra", 123);
});

// Java - Builder Pattern, where setters return builder for method chaining
Sentry.Logger.emit(log -> {
  log.setLevel("info")
  .setMessage("Adding item for user")
  .setAttribute("item_id", item_id)
  .setAttribute("user_id", user_id)
  .setAttribute("extra", 123)
});

// Kotlin
Sentry.Logger.emit("Adding item for user") { // fun emit(block: LogItem.() -> Unit)
  setLevel("info")
  setAttribute("item_id", item_id)
  setAttribute("user_id", user_id)
  setAttribute("extra", 123)
}
```

#### Apple

```swift
// Swift
SentrySDK.logger
  .info(message: "Adding item %s for user %s",
    params: [itemId, userId],
    attributes: ["extra": @"123"]
  )

> // Objective-C
> [SentrySDK.logger
>     emit :@"Adding item for user"
>     level: @"info"
>     attributes: @{ @"extra" : @"123", @"item_id" : item_id, @"user_id" : user_id }
> ];

Reviewer 5: We can ditch ObjC. I would like to write the API in Swift and not worry too much about how the API looks in ObjC.
```suggestion
```

Author: Done with 6dc07e630fefce60d3dc66d74be0ae761083af31

```

#### Threading and Concurrency Considerations

> Both the `Sentry.logger.X` and `Sentry.logger.emit` methods are fire-and-forget (have no return value). This means that the SDK can choose to run these methods on a separate thread or queue them up for processing later. This includes evaluating the string template, and running any internal hooks (like `beforeSendLog`). The SDK should ensure that the logs are sent in the order they are received.

Reviewer 5: Putting everything immediately on a bg thread has the downside of losing logs that occur directly before a crash. Consider this
```Swift
SentrySDK.logger.warn("Not enough memory")
// Won't see the log above for this crash.
codeThatCrashes()
```

We had this issue in the past with breadcrumbs on Cocoa, and then we made them very efficient so we can store them on the calling thread to have them available for crashes.

If we want to replace breadcrumbs completely with logs, we must support that scenario. Maybe it's OK to skip it for the first iteration. This should impact every mobile SDK. I'm also happy to help figure this out once we start implementing this on mobile. I'm unsure how important that use case is for browser and server.

Author: The same applies for server crashes, so we need to figure this out. Left a note about this: 28cb4b597e10634dfff7d645b36094af21c19cc4

## SDK Behavior

### Implementation

> If `debug` is set to `true` in SDK init, calls to the Sentry logger API should also print to the console with the appropriate log level. This will help debugging logging setups.

Reviewer 5: Does the Sentry logger API print all logs? If yes, maybe we need an option to control which log levels the logger should log. Also OK to fix it in the future and skip it for now.

Author: It prints all logs. I agree we probably need another option, will mark it as a TODO.

> Logs should be buffered before being sent. SDKs should keep a buffer of logs on the client (so you can have logs from multiple traces in the buffer) that flushes out based on some kind of condition. A recommended condition is if the buffer length exceeds 25 items, or if 5 seconds have passed. In the future we can use a [weight-tracking based approach](https://github.com/getsentry/rfcs/blob/main/text/0126-sdk-spans-aggregator.md#weight) to determine when to flush logs.

Reviewer 5: For SDK with an offline cache, we will run into cache limits when users log extensively. This then can lead to dropping more important envelopes containing sessions updates, error, or crashes when the cache is full and completely filling it with logs only. We already discussed in the past that maybe we need to split these caches or come up with some kind of priority queue, so logs get deleted before crash events, for example. Currently, the default cache limit on most mobile SDKs is 100 envelopes.

I'm not sure if we already need to address this now and maybe we can skip it for LA.

Author: We can skip for LA. One we get client outcomes data we can come back and make a more formal decision.

> Logs should be buffered before being sent. SDKs should keep a buffer of logs on the client (so you can have logs from multiple traces in the buffer) that flushes out based on some kind of condition. A recommended condition is if the buffer length exceeds 25 items, or if 5 seconds have passed. In the future we can use a [weight-tracking based approach](https://github.com/getsentry/rfcs/blob/main/text/0126-sdk-spans-aggregator.md#weight) to determine when to flush logs.

Reviewer 5: What about client reports and rate limits?

Reviewer 7: I don't know about client reports, but if you're talking about size limits, a log is [limited to 1mib](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/36999834d57c5497ac464167a076d36465368aec/relay-config/src/config.rs#L697) like spans. Rate limits should use `X-Sentry-Rate-Limits` like usual.

Reviewer 5: I'm talking about these [client reports](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/telemetry/client-reports/). With these, we get statistics on how many logs the SDKs dropped due to rate limiting or in beforeSend or cache overflow, etc. We only need to mention it here. Implementing this should be low effort. Simply add a new data category for logs, and keep track of dropped logs in beforeSend. That's roughly it.
Yes, rate limits as usual, and we should mention this here.

Author: Great point - done with 824a186716371e0423661e16521224bd32653cf1

Reviewer 5: Great thanks 🙏

### Default Attributes

By default the SDK should set the following attributes:

1. `sentry.message.template`: The parameterized template string
2. `sentry.message.parameters.X`: The parameters to the template string, where X is the number that represent the parameters position in the template string
3. `sentry.environment`: The environment set in the SDK
4. `sentry.release`: The release set in the SDK
5. `sentry.trace.parent_span_id`: The span id of the span that was active when the log was collected. This should not be set if there was no active span.

Example:

```json
{
  "sentry.message.template": "Adding item %s for user %s",
  "sentry.message.parameters.0": "item_id",
  "sentry.message.parameters.1": "user_id",
  "sentry.environment": "production",
  "sentry.release": "1.0.0",
  "sentry.trace.parent_span_id": "b0e6f15b45c36b12"
}
```

> Beyond these attributes, we are exploring if the SDK should also send OS, user, and device information automatically (via reading the appropriate contexts from the scope). Given this behaviour can easily be added as a new feature to the SDK, it does not have to be part of the initial SDK implementation until we make a finalized decision.

Reviewer 5: Yes, I think we should. Especially if we want to replace breadcrumbs with logs.

Breadcrumbs are useful for understanding what happened before an error or a crash. Sending user and device info allows the product to query all logs happening before an error for a specific user or device. It would also allow you to view logs across app launches. Breadcrumbs are always only for one app launch only. For some problems, exploring what happened on a device on previous app launches could be useful.

Author: https://www.notion.so/sentry/DACI-Future-of-Breadcrumbs-once-we-have-Application-Logging-1618b10e4b5d8024bd01f6f2e232206d
